at 10 the worst single Mass killing of
Palestinians in the Israel Gaza War so
far hundreds are dead after a blast at a
hospital chaos and horror at the scene
much of the building has been
destroyed a panic to treat the injured
thousands of people were Sheltering at
the hospital having fled Israel's
bombing campaign
targeting
Hamas they thought they were safe now
gazans once again count the cost of this
war Israel denies it was responsible
blaming Palestinian Islamic Jihad Jordan
Egypt the United Arab Emirates and Saudi
Arabia condemn what they say was an
Israeli
attack the Missile hit the hospital
not long after
dark Allah you can hear the
impact the explosion destroyed Al akley
hospital it was already damaged from a
smaller attack at the weekend the
building was
flattened very soon video was posted
from Gaza of bodies laid out near the
ruins of the
hospital so many dead and the size of
the explosion
together looked to be having a profound
impact on what was already the most
dangerous crisis in the Middle East in a
[Music]
generation the wounded were taken across
Gaza City to shifa
hospital the Israeli Army's First
Response said hospitals were highly
sensitive and not targets of its
military and urged caution about what it
called the UN verified claims of a
terrorist
[Music]
organization that statement will not be
believed by Palestinians and by millions
of others in the Middle East who see
these
images the wounded and the dying pouring
into shifa from alaki arrived at a
hospital already overwhelmed by
thousands of casualties from Israeli a
strikes it was already struggling to
treat patients after Israel Cut Off fuel
water food and deliveries of medical
supplies Jordan and Egypt condemned
Israel for a dangerous
escalation Jordan said the International
Community should pressure Israel to stop
its attacks to prevent what it called
wide cycles of
violence as Fury and fear gripped
Palestinians Israel denied that it was
responsible we would not deliberately
Target a hospital now my information
that I have just received from the
highest Authority because I asked about
this I know you would ask me about this
is that all indications are that this
was not Israeli ordinance but this was
rather a Hamas rocket that fell short
now I want to explain this from past
conflicts with the terrorists in Gaza we
know that on average about 33% of the
rockets that they shoot at us fall short
and land in
Gaza pictures posted on social media
show many children among the casualties
in Gaza so many people needed treatment
that the corridors of shifa Hospital
were packed the destruction of alaki
hospital is also spreading fear among
the hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians who fled to gaza's Southern
border with Egypt after Israel told them
to leave their homes there's 8, people
here at night it's usually rockus it's
loud people are you know running kids
are running around tonight there is
silence absolute silence you can't hear
a thing the people are just in absolute
shock about what's happened it's really
really shocking and and I just don't
know what to say I have no
words anger spilled onto the streets in
the Occupy West Bank the other part of
the Palestinian territories that's
separated from Gaza by
Israel since Hamas attacked out of Gaza
on the 7th of October there had been
fears that mass casualties caused by
Israel's response could ignite West Bank
towns that have been the center of
unrest for well over a
year the young men on the streets and
Palestinian armed groups in the West
Bank will not believe Israel denials the
latest from Israel's prime minister
blaming what he called barbaric
terrorists for the
attack the attack is a seismic event in
a war that might spread elsewhere in the
Middle East there are reports that the
Palestinian president has canceled a
meeting with the US president who's due
in Israel tomorrow morning on a mission
that was aimed at easing the plight of
Palestinian civilians and who will now
walk into an even deeper crisis let's
just pick up with Jeremy boen our
International editor um if we can and I
just want to make the point Jeremy that
obviously this is a shocking event
tonight that we've all seen both sides
um are putting forward competing claims
about who is responsible trying to get
at the truth of this is going to be very
difficult
indeed yeah it will do uh will be Clive
and of course more than anything it's an
appalling tragedy for the hundreds of
people who were killed the thousands who
were injured their families in a place
where civilians are already going
through uh a terrible ordeal now in
terms of the different assertions that
are being made uh Israel very quickly
denied it had anything to do with it
even more
quickly Arab countries blamed Israel it
wasn't just Hamas blaming Israel it was
uh Egypt and Jordan who have peace
treaties with Israel it was the United
Arab Emirates which normalized relations
with Israel under the Abraham Accords it
was Saudi Arabia who until all this
started was talking to the Americans
about normalizing relations with Israel
so that already is a sea change in the
the
the complexities of politics in the
Middle East and I think that the way
that this is going already the sheer
volume of casualties on top of all the
other people in all the other people all
the other civilians in Gaza who've been
killed I think that is
enormously dangerous and inflammatory
and I think as well that uh the
consequences of this could be very
serious